# Task 1 Customers with top transactions :top:

The first step to begin with your analysis is to convert your data into a table and name them. To do this, first, go to the **Sales_fact** sheet in your workbook. Select all the data, go to the **Format** tab and click on **Convert to table**. Name the table as Sales_fact.

Do the same for **Category_dim** and **Geography_dim** sheets.

## ❓Question 1 
Calculate the sales for each transaction.

For this create a new column at the end named **Sales** where Sales = Quantity * Price.

_Enter the sales value for transaction ID “31245032” of product ID “10000338”._: ₹ 300

**Note: -** You have to filter two columns that is Trasaction_id and Product_id for values 31245032 and 10000338 respectively.

| Date       | Transaction_id | Customer_id | Product_id | Store_id |	Quantity | Price (INR) | Sales |
|------------|----------------|-------------|------------|----------|----------|-------------|-------|
| 2020/11/30 |    31245032    |  712345322  |  10000338  |  36002   |   3.00   |   100.00    | 	300  |

## ❓Question 2
Calculate the total sales for each Customer_id - Transaction_id combination.

For this create a new worksheet and name it **Sales_by_Customer_Transaction**.

Copy the Transaction_id and Customer_id columns simultaneously, and paste them into the new sheet.

Select this data, go to the **Data** tab and click on **Data clean-up >> Remove duplicates**. This way you get a unique combination of Transaction_id and Customer_id.

Create a new column **Total Sales**. 

Here, creating a _Table_ will be of great help. In cell C2 use the Function **=SUMIFS(sum_range, criteria_range1, criterion1, [criteria_range2, criterion2, ...])**.

_=SUMIFS(Sales_fact[Sales], Sales_fact[Transaction_id], A2, Sales_fact[Customer_id], B2)_

Copy down the formula.

Here you can see the table name Sales_fact with its column name. This is called structured reference. This is very helpful for entering the range of values in a table from different or the same sheet.

_What is the customer_id for the highest sales?_: 712345388

# Task 2 Product sales from 18th till 15th December
Compute the sales amount for each product with the product description for the period 8th to 15th December.

First, copy the **Product_id** from the **Sales_fact** table, paste it into a new sheet and name it **Task2**. Remove the duplicates.

Filter the **Sales_fact** table for dates between 18th December 2020 and 15th December 2020. Copy the filtered data, paste it into the **Task2** sheet and give a heading **Sales_fact from 8 December to 15 December, 2020**. 

> Note: The **Date** column is not consistent. First, select the Date column and change it to **Date** format to bring consistency.

Please note:- This data is in the form of a table. I have named it **Filtered_Table**.

Adjacent to the column **Product_id**, add a column, **Product_description** using VLOOKUP and **Category_dim** sheet.

Add an another column **Sales**. In cell C2 use the Function **SUMIFS(sum_range, criteria_range1, criterion1, [criteria_range2, criterion2, ...])**.

_=SUMIFS(Filtered_Table[Sales],Filtered_Table[Product_id],A2)_

Copy down the formula.

## ❓Question 1
What is the product description of the product with the highest sales? : Cornflakes_1Kg

Sort the Sales column Z to A to find the answer.

## ❓Question 2
What is the sales amount of the product with the highest sales? : 5372

# Task 3 ARPU by city and by state

### ARPU: Average Revenue Per User

**ARPU** stands for **Average Revenue Per User**. It's a key metric used to measure the financial performance of a business, especially in industries like telecommunications, media, and subscription-based services.

### How is ARPU calculated?
ARPU is calculated by dividing the total revenue generated by the number of users over a specific period.

**ARPU = Total Revenue / Number of Users**

### Why is ARPU important?
* **Measures profitability:** It indicates how much revenue a company generates from each user.
* **Compares performance:** ARPU can be used to compare the performance of different products, services, or customer segments.
* **Informs pricing and marketing strategies:** By analyzing ARPU, companies can optimize pricing and marketing efforts to increase revenue.

**Example:**
If a mobile phone service provider generates $100,000 in revenue from 10,000 subscribers in a month, their ARPU would be $10 per user.

Create a new column in the **Sales_fact** table and name it **State**. Fill this column with state name given in **Geography_dim** table. Use VLOOKUP and and **Store_id** as the lookup value.

Also, create a new sheet by the name **State_analystics** and copy State names from **Geography_dim** table. Do not remove duplicates.

Create a new column **Sales_by_State** and calculate Sales for each state by using **SUMIFS** and **Sales_fact** table.

_=SUMIFS(Sales_fact[Sales],Sales_fact[State],A2)_

Copy down the formula.

Again, create a new sheet **User_per_state**. Copy the **Customer_id** and **State** from the **Sales_fact** table and copy into this sheet. Remove the duplicates. Name this table as **User_per_state**.

Now go to the **State_analystics** sheet and another column **State_Wise_User**. Using COUNTIF and the data in table **User_per_state**, find user per state.
COUNTIF(range, criterion)

_=COUNTIF(User_per_state[#ALL],A2)_

Copy down the formula.

Now, create the last column ** # ARPU**. 

Divide the columns **Sales_by_State** and **State_Wise_User**.

_=B2/C2_

Copy down the formula.

## ❓Question 1
What is the average revenue per customer for Maharashtra? : 2024.14

# Task 4 Sales by category with city level breakup

Create a new column **Category_disc** in the **Sales_fact** table. Using VLOOKUP and the data in the **Category_dim** table
